# AstroChronicles Web Application

Astro Chronicles is a Flask web application that showcases a daily new picture 
and a two sentence story generated by ChatGPT based on the picture's title, 
integratating various technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, 
JSON, Bootstrap 3.0, the OpenAI API, NASA APOD API, and Flask Web Framework. 

# Astro Chronicles Webapp Documentation

Important
* make sure to replace the API keys in the main.py folder with your API keys (nasa APOD, openAI)

Dependencies for program:

Python 3.9.7
Flask==2.2.3
openai==0.27.4
pip==23.0.1
pipdeptree==2.7.0
setuptools==65.6.3
wheel==0.38.4
wincertstore==0.2
 
Anaconda Spyder IDE
Anaconda Prompt Terminal

Before attempting to deploy or run this program, make sure all dependencies are installed and up-to-date.  The following two-step tutorial on running the web-app locally assumes Anaconda Prompt from anaconda3 and Python are alreadyinstalled 

To set-up a local virtual environment using Anaconda Prompt:

	First: Check if there is a conda installed in your path using this prompt:

			conda -V
		
	Second: Update the conda environment using this prompt:

			conda update conda

	Third: Set up the virtual environment using this prompt: 

			(envname can be anything,  x.x should be replaced with your python   version)

			conda create --name envname python=3.9

	Fourth: Activate the virtual environment using this prompt:

			conda activate envname
	
	Fifth: Install the required packages to the environment using this prompt:

			conda install -n envname package

	Sixth: To deactivate the virtual environment use this prompt:

			conda deactivate

	Seventh: To delete the entire virtual environment use this prompt:

			conda install -n envname package

To Run App Locally:

	First: Install the required dependencies into your virtual environment by navigating into the project folder using the terminal. Then, use these prompts in order to install it using the requirements.txt found inside the project folder:

			python -m pip install -r requirements.txt

	Second: Type the prompt into your Anaconda Terminal and then copy the provided address the web-app is running on into your browser.

			python main.py

# Technologies used:

Python is used for back-end development.
Bootstrap is used for the front-end development, used as a framework to develop a responsive, mobile-first web application.
Flask Web Framework is used for the web-application server.
Anaconda Prompt from anaconda3 is used to locally start the virtual environment.
The NASA Astronomy Picture of the Day [APOD] API is used to fetch and display the APOD on the web-application page.
OpenAI API is used to fetch and display a randomly generated two sentence sci-fi horror story based on the APOD title. 
HTML is used for front-end development, creating the structure of the web application
CSS is used for front-end development, to add creative styling for the web application
JSON is used as a lightweight data interchange format to transmit data from the APIs

# File tree documentation:
 
As in standard python based web applications, the static folder contains a basic CSS file. This can be used instead of the bootstrap CSS file by deleting and replacing the CDN links inside the index.html file located in the templates folder with a link to the CSS file.
Main.py contains the web-app coding *MAKE SURE TO REPLACE API KEY PLACEHOLDERS WITH YOUR API KEYS*
Index.html contains the structure of the web-app. There are a few {{variable}} snippets in which the output of the function executed in the main.py is passed into. Replacing these or putting them into differing places will send the output of the function to other places.


# Function documentation:

def get_Picture(): Gets the URL of picture from NASA APOD\n
\ndef get_Title(): function to get title from NASA APOD
\ndef iStory(): function to get story based on APOD title